---
layout: post
title: Developing a new competition dashboard for GeneRally.
---

I've just though up this pretty overly-ambitious project of mine, seeing that I've pretty much done enough standard HTML5 and CSS works, and I guess it's time for me to bring it up a notch.

This inspiration comes from one of my all-time favourite little game, GeneRally. The plan is to create an open-source, integrated, sort of like a "competition dashboard", to compensate for the lack of multiplayer mode in the game but still want to challenge others for a competition.

## What is GeneRally?

[GeneRally](http://gene-rally.com/) is an amazing game. It's this little arcade racing game where you can race your cars against a group of AIs, or with your friends on the same keyboard, on several default tracks, or custom-made tracks [provided by the community](http://forum.generally-racers.com/viewforum.php?f=6).

But unfortunately, it lacks multiplayer support, yet people from around the world found this awesome loophole for them to be able to set up a quasi-online race system. This gets more commonly known in the community as the "login system".

## How does the login system work?

Typically, [signing up for a competition](http://forum.generally-racers.com/viewtopic.php?f=11&t=61) requires you to include an email address. Usually, they post their competition details (including team, car number, and email), in the competition's thread.

You will later be sent (via email) a username and password for you to "log in" to the race. You are also provided a "competition pack", which is a copy of GeneRally modified so it has the tracks, cars, and settings required for the competition. You can use this to practice each tracks in the competition.

On raceday, you will head to the competition dashboard set up by the organizer. When you're ready, you then log in using the credentials sent to you. This is simply an act of "checking in" to the race.

Once logged in, you will be provided a verified track file that you download to do your "official race" with. Your login time is also tracked, and you have a limited time (say, your total race time + 5 minutes) for you to submit your race results. Failure to send it within the assigned timeslot will result in an invalid race, and you will be classified as Did Not Finish (DNF).

Submitting a race requires a few files to be sent for verification:

* The verified track (*.trk) file you just raced on.
* The replay file (*.gam).
* The screenshot of the game after the race is finished.

These files will be later be verified by the organizer, and replays will be checked for rule violations, like wall-bumping, track-cutting, etc.
And thanks to some [awesome](http://forum.generally-racers.com/viewtopic.php?f=8&t=54) [tools](http://forum.generally-racers.com/viewtopic.php?f=8&t=89) provided by the community, it makes the job slightly easier!

## So, what's the problem here?

As a former GeneRally competition organizer, so far, there aren't really any robust tools that will be able to handle all of these things easily.

The only tool we have to rely on here is [an Excel file](http://forum.generally-racers.com/viewtopic.php?f=11&t=171). Yep. We use this to generate login details, that we would send manually, one by one, to each player, via email.

Also, for players, running this is also a hassle. Since the simple tool only generates passwords, and the rest of us competition organizers couldn't be bothered enough to set up a dashboard for competitions, we used to let them submit these files via email. We then compare the timestamp on the e-mail to the check-in time generated by the login.

Which is quite a hassle, if you ask me. Not only for the competition organizers, but also for the players.

## What are you planning to do?

What I have in my mind is to set up some kind of an "integrated competition dashboard" for a GeneRally competition. A few of the possible feature lists I'm able to come up with are as follows:

* Easy to install & set up. No hassle.
* Entirely web-based, utilising the latest HTML5, CSS, and JavaScript technologies.
* Logs you in to a completely accesible competition dashboard, with a clean interface.
* Check in to the race with a single click.
* Submit your race files using the form provided on the "race page". No need to email it to the organizer anymore.

Meanwhile, here are a few "probably-slightly-over-enthusiastic" features, but might be included:

* Ability to see current competition details (such as championship standings, and previous race results).
* Manage multiple competitions. This means competition organizers would be able to provide one universal dashboard for all of their competitions, and be able to provide players ease of access to all competitions.

But most of all, it will be open-source, and I will host the code on [GitHub](https://github.com/). This means anyone can get the source code, and you can pretty much do anything with it, like help me fix any bugs that you find, or even redistribute it! I will license it so that it's possible to do all the aforementioned stuffs.

---

As I said, this might be over-enthusiastic, but as far as I'm learning new things, and be able to implement my skills into this, one of my little dreams of mine might finally become true.
